《Hillbilly Elegy》

J. D. Vance
96个笔记

点评



Introduction

◆ There is a lack of agency here—a feeling that you have little control over your life and a willingness to blame everyone but yourself. This is distinct from the larger economic landscape of modern America.


Chapter 1

◆ embodiment

◆ it is also full of drug addicts and at least one man who can find the time to make eight chil﻿dren but can’t find the time to support them. It is unquestionably beautiful, but its beauty is obscured by the environmental waste and loose trash that scatters the countryside. Its people are hardworking, except of course for the many food stamp recipients who show little interest in honest work. Jackson, like the Blanton men, is full of contradictions.


Chapter 2

◆ leap out

◆ uprooted their lives

◆ loose with the details.

◆ the affair produced a pregnancy

◆ privacy was more theory than practice.

◆ Mamaw had her dreams but never the opportunity to pursue them.

◆ Still, Mamaw and Papaw believed that hard work mattered more.

◆ they eventually relented to the children’s demands for dogs and cats.


Chapter 3

◆ miscarriages

◆ you’re just so wrapped up in your own stuff that you hardly recognize the change.

◆ acutely

◆ But sometimes his failure to conform brought terrible consequences.

◆ Despite their violent marriage, Mamaw and Papaw always maintained a measured optimism about their children’s futures.


Chapter 4

◆ mirrored

◆ Manufacturing in America was a tough business in the post-globalization world. 

◆ lucrative pension

◆ eminently

◆ people assume that everyone who makes it is just really smart. To the average Middletonian, hard work doesn’t matter as much as raw talent.

◆ You can walk through a town where 30 percent of the young men work fewer than twenty hours a week and find not a single person aware of his own laziness. 

◆ solid performance

◆ In other words, despite all of the environmental pressures from my neighborhood and community, I received a different message at home. And that just might have saved me.


Chapter 5

◆ all walks of life

◆ contracted

◆ Sometimes Mom’s devotion to education arguably went a little too far.

◆ She never laid a hand on me punitively

◆ dropped to his knees

◆ At any rate,

◆ It was like we were living among land mines—one wrong step, and kaboom.

◆ detract attention from 

◆ erratic

◆ Mom was the roommate most prone to hard living.

◆ With partying came alcohol, and with alcohol came alcohol abuse and even more bizarre behavior

◆ ignited her temper

◆ infuriated

◆ pulled over

◆ clambered

◆ cruiser

◆ on bond

◆ custody

◆ molest

◆ confined


Chapter 6

◆ give Lindsay a shot at her dreams

◆ ecstatic

◆ In hindsight,

◆ What I do know is that our exuberance didn’t survive the car ride

◆ take on an additional child,

◆ Having cycled through a number of men in an effort to find me a father, she had settled on the original candidate.


Chapter 7

◆ seared in my memory

◆ were conditioned to 

◆ passed out

◆ perverts

◆ Papaw’s death cast light upon something that had previously lurked in the shadows.

◆ On designated weekdays

◆ These sessions provoked little more than arguments and raw emotion


Chapter 8

◆ sober

◆ about ten years her senior


Chapter 9

◆ assuaged

◆ Her life was a clinic in how to lose faith in people, but Mamaw always found a way to believe in the people she loved. 

◆ harbored the insecurity

◆ At the climax of the show

◆ falling-out

◆ transgressions

◆ baby formula

◆ breast-feed

◆ mind-set

◆ ? It would be years before I learned that no ﻿single book, or expert, or field could fully explain the problems of hillbillies in modern America.

◆ Thrift is inimical to our being

◆ if you believe the statistics, the children of these intact homes have plenty of reason for optimism.

◆ In hindsight, those explanations make sense, and I am certain that a bit of truth lies in each.

◆ out of that happiness came so many of the opportunities I’ve had for the past twelve years.


Chapter 10

◆ incur

◆ rigors

◆ probation violation

◆ discretionary

◆ ventilator

◆ For my entire life, I’d harbored resentment at the world

◆ every modern convenience at my fingertips


Chapter 11

◆ meritocracy


Chapter 12

◆ ecstatic

◆ predated

◆ triumphant

◆ beyond the pale


Chapter 13

◆ you have to strike a balance between shy and overbearing.

◆ I’ve always considered myself gregarious but not oppressive. 

◆ tap or sparkling water

◆ pretentious

◆ admonition

◆ pervasive

◆ made the cut


Chapter 14

◆ bout with addiction


Chapter 15

◆ precious little

◆ concede

-- 来自微信读书
